Welcome to part 2 of the sockets tutorial with Python. In the previous tutorial, we learned how we could send and receive data using sockets, but then we illustrated the problem that can arise when our communication exceeds our buffer size. In this tutorial, we'll talk about overcoming this! As mentioned before, there are a few logical ways that you could handle for this, but one common way is by starting all messages with a header that contains the length of the message that is going to come. The next challenge is normalizing this header in some way. You might consider using some series of characters, or some format, but then you run the risk of people accidentally, or purposefully, mimicking this formatting. Instead, you can go with a fixed-length header, where the first n bytes of data will be the header data, which will include the length of the message to come. Once we've received that length of data, we know any following information will be a new message, where we need to grab the header and continue repeating this process. So what we need to do now is choose some truly maximal message size. Say, 1,000,000,000 bytes. Right, there's almost no circumstance where someone would attempt anything even close to this via our chat app, so this will be fine. That number is 10 bytes (10 chars). In python, how might we represent any number as 10 characters? We can use string formatting! Yay basics! Since this is a lesser-used functionality, see more here: format examples, which you will see examples like: This one is a bit more involved, but nothing too crazy here. I increased out buffer to 16 bytes. 8 wouldnt even be enough to read the header, so that would have been a problem, and you would probably never have a buffer as small as these anyway. We're just doing it for example. So, we start off in a state where the next bit of data we get is a new_msg If the message is a new_msg, then the first thing we do is parse the header, which we already know is a fixed-length of 10 characters. From here, we parse the message length. Then, we continue to build the full_msg, until that var is the size of msglen + our HEADERSIZE. Once this happens, we print out the full message. Going from this to some sort of streaming API is quite simple. Let's do an example where the server just streams out something simple, like the current time. To do this, we just add the following to the end:

